# Prediction of queue waiting times

This repository contains all the documents and resources related to the Final Degree Project. The project focuses on predicting queue waiting times by developing a queuing model and creating a Power BI dashboard for a further analysis and visualization of the results obtained. 

## Contents

- Datasets
- Deliveries
- Power BI Dashboard
- Queuing Model code
- Output file

## Input Datasets

The `Datasets` directory contains the four models generated for this project. These datasets contain synthetic data and are used as inputs in the model, enabling the simulation and analysis of different scenarios.

## Project Deliverables

The `Deliveries` directory contains all the documents delivered to the project tutor throughout the project, including the final report. These materials document the project's progress, methodology, results, and conclusions.

## Power BI Dashboard

The `PowerBI - Monitorization` file contains the Power BI dashboard created for the project. It provides interactive visualizations and data analysis based on the queuing model's output. The dashboard helps understand and present the insights obtained from the model. This dashboard can also be accessed by clicking the following link: https://app.powerbi.com/links/ESppFJgr0x?ctid=6b514c29-2391-4831-b774-84f35c45bf01&pbi_source=linkShare

Additionally, the alarm implemented in one of the charts in the dashboard can also be accessed by clicking the following link: https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/dashboards/786d5108-d27c-4c34-8a78-b1299605b302?ctid=6b514c29-2391-4831-b774-84f35c45bf01&pbi_source=linkShare

## Queuing Model Code

The `QueuingModel` file contains the source code for the queuing model developed for this project. The code is written in Python using the Jupyter Notebook platform. The queuing model implements the mathematical and statistical algorithms necessary to simulate and analyze queuing systems and uses the simulation library SimPy. To execute the code the `Datasets` directory must be downloaded and saved in the same directory as the queuing model file. In order to use one of the four models as the queuing model input its path must be copied and pasted once the code is running.

## Output File

The `wait_times_30_20` file contains an output file generated by the queuing model. This file provides the waiting times obtained from the simulations made in the queuing model.
